Rules for the book

Editing

NO EM or EN DAHSES, hyphens okay and expected (numbers are hyphenated because my math brain demands it)
Saddle bags is two words
Cadence is hybrid American and British, my unique voice blend so words like towards is okay even though it's British
Present tense for the actions that are happening (dream sequences will be included) Past tense for recalls, memories, and for things like when the meadow where several things take place was designated a campsite.
Internal direct thoughts are italicized proceeded with a comma to denote internal dialog (think little devil on the shoulder) Also animal translations/thoughts are italicized. This gets stripped in a lot of the cut and paste editing we do but should be able to be double checked with the full docx files.
Word and the comma wars are in stage 4 cancer as it keeps changing periods for complete sentences before the quotes to commas because it's an ass. Alert me when it does this.
Dialogs are not bound by grammar rules, but speaking rules. So no commas necessary for direct addresses and run on sentences and character dialects are allowed.
No big whole block corrections. You don't have to repost the whole corrected block and because of the way the copying and pasting from word to chat to word it messes up on both sides and I am having to do manual edits and looking for a comma you added is wasted time.
When giving corrections or suggested edits, give the original line, the corrected/suggested line, and the why. You do not have to list every line if there is nothing to be corrected unless you want to comment on it.
Watch POVs as they change frequently and keep dialog and narration to the character POV
Continuity matters as this is how we got into the big edit right now because I messed up on ages, some foreshadowing and call-backs so watch for those.
Odd chapters are about the humans, even chapters are about the myth: guardian stories, jack, lea, and the valley character developments

Characters with ages:
